Hi, welcome back. As the course
is structured around 7 questions
I thought it would be a good
idea to introduce you to the 7
questions right away. These are the
seven questions that we will
investigate over the nine weeks
of this course. So what are
those questions? What are those
questions? Well, the first one
is bout acquaintance. How do
your thoughts connect the things
about which you think?
This is actually a very
difficult question to
understand. What makes it
slightly easier to understand is
by thinking about a potential
answer. The answer comes from a
famous philosopher called
Bertrand Russell.
Russell endorsed the principle of
acquaintance. What's the
principle of acquaintance?
Russell formulated this in
several Ways.
It's not going to be easy for us
to fix on exactly what the
principle is, but here's the
clearest thing he says about. I
think he says we cannot make a
judgment or supposition without
knowing what it is that we are
making our judgment or
supposition about. I think this
is very sensible, very
insightful. There are many,
many, many objects in the
universe, and most of those
objects are things that neither
you nor I can think about.
Most of the objects in the
universe I cannot think about
them and nor can you, but some
of those objects are objects
that you or I can think about.
So you've seen a bit of me. Now
you're perfectly in a position
to think thoughts about Steve.
Oh, I like his jacket. Yeah, do
you like my jacket? I hope you
like my jacket. I put this on
just a lecture. I thought they
would look nice. I'm sure you're
not thinking that I don't why
I'm saying this. I'll have to
cut it out later. Don't worry,
good. There are things that you
can think about you. Think about
me. There are things that you
cannot think about right here.
Something else. So here's
something I think about a lot.
This is my friend, the Puffin.
And before I introduced you to
the Puffin, you could not think
about the Puffin. You could have
no thoughts about this stuff and
you had no way of singling it
out in thought. But now that I
have introduced you to the
Puffin, you're able to think
about the puffin. Thank you
puffin, you're welcome. Great,
very good OK I'm sure that works
really well. Elect us to now.
So here's the thought Russell's
making a very simple point.
There is a distinction between
the things you can think about
and the things you cannot think
about. What makes that
distinction is the fact that you
know some things and you don't
know others. Now that I've
introduced you to Puffin, you
can think about puffing before
you couldn't. To Russell
Formulates this in a very wordy
way. Now one thing I do, and
philosophers give us lots of
words I like to go through and
cut out some of the words that
you don't need. So here I'm
cutting out some of the words.
It's very good exercise. We want
the fewest words possible
because each word costs a lot of
effort on our part. That's bad.
We're lazy philosophers. Good
philosophers are lazy for
losses. Now. One time encourage
you to do is also to go through
and cut out words. Sometimes
you cut out words and it turns
out they really needed. That's
actually a good part of the
learning process, right? So put
them back in again. Of course,
if you find that it was a
mistake anyway, I think I can
cut out some words here. I
think I've got Russell saying
this whenever, supposing or
judging occurs, the terms to
which the supposing or judging
mind is thereby related must be
terms which the mining question
is acquainted with.
So the difference between before
when you couldn't think that's
about Puffin. And now when you
can think thoughts about puffing
is that you have become
acquainted with Puffin that's
Russell's idea, acquaintances.
What makes the difference
between things you can think
about and things you can't think
about? So Russell thinks that
the thing at the top there more
complicated way of formulating
the principle is the same thing
as the more relaxed wherever.
My philosophy says something
like this is merely to say that,
or in other words, you can be
sure that there saying something
false. Same thing when I'm
reading your essays, right? If
saying the first thing was
merely saying the second thing,
then Russell would hardly bother
to write both of them. He was
very careful. Writer Russell
then gives us an interesting
argument for the principle. He
says. It seems to me that the
truth of this principle is
evident as soon as the principle
is understood at that, of course
means that we should be highly
dubious of this principle.
If that's what Russell says in
his defense. Nevertheless, what
we're interested in here for now
is just the principle of
acquaintance. Whenever you're
supposing or judging the things
that you're supposing or judging
about, have to be things that
you're acquainted with, there
has to be some relation special
relation that Russell calls
acquaintance that links you to
the things now course. Later,
we're going to have to say
something about what
acquaintance is that's going to
be very important for us in
order to make any progress here.
But for now, hopefully you've
got a tiny handle on that first
question. How do you thoughts
connect to the things about
which you think? Russell's
theory, which is very
influential still today, is that
the connection involves an
acquaintance relation between
you and the things, a relation
which is more primitive than
thinking about them, supposing
or believing them, which
explains the possibility of
thinking Supposable, believing
about things, interesting idea
that will be explored later. The
second question is closely
related. This is the question,
how, if at all, do your thoughts
influence your? Perceptions.
And again, it's kind of easier
to understand this question if
we take a look at some of the
evidence that we might use in
answer yet. Hey, you see I had
two faces. You can see these
faces here now. Most people will
have no problem categorizing one
of these. Is a white face and
the other one is a black face.
That's not a difference in the
luminance profiles of the faces.
The scientists here of carefully
matched those. It's a belief
about the races of the people
involved. Certainly the subjects
in the experiment. We're well
able rapidly spontaneously to
categorize the faces according
to their races. Why's that
interesting? Well, what the
experimenters were asking is.
Do your beliefs about the
race of a face you're
looking at alter the
perception of luminance?
Now, in the face that they
shouldn't happen, you kind of
thing like perceiving is one
thing, believing is another, and
those two things should be
pretty separate now that was
anyway the Orthodox view. So
what the researchers did very
clever, very simple. They took
the faces, static images of
faces. Of course not real faces.
They took the images of the
faces and they created carefully
matched pairs of faces where the
illumination was balanced
exactly between the blackface
and Whiteface. OK, very good.
And then they gave subjects of
para faces. Could have been 2
white faces to blackface. Is
thinking in terms of race and
ask them to adjust one of the
faces so that it was matching
the other face in terms of
luminance. So in this case I
might be asked for example,
please adjust the slider so that
the black face matches the white
face and I can make it darker or
lighter. Now what the
researchers found was really
interesting. When people are
trying to match a white face to
a blackface, adjusting the white
face, they tended to make the
white face much darker than it
really needed to be,
significantly darker. And
Conversely, when they were
adjusting a black face to match
a white face, they tended to
make the blackface much lighter
than it really should have been.
If we were just thinking about
the visual properties about the
luminance of the faces. So the
conclusion that these
researchers drew is that your
beliefs can influence your
perceptual experience in a very
fundamental way. Your police can
influence how dark or light you
perceive something to be. Now,
I'm not saying we should take
this evidence for face value. Of
course we should explore more
carefully whether we believe the
conclusions. But what this
research suggests is that
apparently your beliefs can
influence your perception of
lightness and darkness.
So what good question? Well,
several philosophers among them,
looping and Clark. I've taken a
finger from one of their papers
here have taken these and other
findings to indicate that there
isn't really an interesting
boundary between perception and
cognition. There's just a kind
of prediction loop, right? So,
of course, your sensory organs
transduce signals and provide
some kind of Inputs.
But once you get past those
transducers, the retina and
so on, which themselves I
should have interesting about
processing, so the rest is
and other transducers.
It's really all a matter of the
brain making predictions about
what expects to happen and those
inputs either confirming or
disconfirming those predictions
which results in modifications
to prediction. So on a picture
like Lupulin, Clarks, there is
no interesting boundary between
perception and thought, and
that's relevant to us because we
were interested. If you remember
from a moment ago, in Russell's
principle of acquaintance
question is what's acquaintance,
Russell tells us.
Acquaintance essentially
consists in a relation.
What relation, well, it's a
relation between the mind and
something other than the mind.
OK, very good. So if you're
going to think about the Puffin,
I've still got the puffin here.
I want to show the phone again.
I like my puffin I hope you like
my puffin. Sometimes people do
sometimes they don't it's very
special to me. But wait, it's
consistent relation between the
mind and something other than
the mind. So in the case where
you're thinking about the
Puffin, you need an acquaintance
relation between you and the
profit. Very good, super simple.
What could go wrong?
What is that relation though?
Will Russell tells us? He says
we have acquaintance with
anything of which we are
directly aware. OK, good. What
is this directly business right?
Russell goes on and he tells us
and this is very important
because if you use the term
directly without saying what you
mean, no idea what you're
talking about. It's a metaphor
is not directly anyway directly
aware of something. That's to
say without the intermediary of
any process of inference or
knowledge of truths. So what I
did in this case was I.
Profit along with me to show
you. Precisely so that you could
be in this sense directly aware
of Puffin. You could be aware of
Puffin without needing any
inferences or knowledge of
truths about him. I didn't have
to describe him to you as I
would have done if I'd forgotten
to bring alright, very good.
Why is this relevant to us?
Well? If you think about what
lupien and Clark were just
arguing what they were arguing
in effect is that there is no
acquaintance. There's no such
thing. There is no relation that
you bear to an object that
doesn't involve the intermediary
of Inferences and knowledge of
truths. That's their view about
cognition. There is no
acquaintance at all, so this
question about cognitive
penetration, how, if at all, do
your thoughts influence your
perceptions? Is directly related
to that first question about
acquaintance, because it could
be that the answer to the second
question, perceptions and
thoughts are really just part of
a single process. There isn't
fundamentally anything to
distinguish their could
undermine our views about the
principle of acquaintance.
Or maybe not.
Who OK good two questions out of
seven so far.
Hope this is OK, I've really got
no idea about online lecture
etiquette, but I like when I'm
lecturing normally to have a Cup
of tea with me. I hope that's OK
when I'm doing online, I guess
you can just Fast forward,
right? Marvelous, marvelous, OK,
good. The next question is about
awareness. See how these
three questions are they
getting about all related
that distinct questions? And
actually you can treat them
without linking them at all.
But they are all tightly
connected to each other by sort
of background theory that we're
sort of exploring exploding very
good, what is?
Sorry, what good.
Is your perception awareness of
the objects around you? So you
might think that perception
awareness is wonderful because
being perceptually aware of
things is what fundamentally
allows you to think about them.
Perceptual awareness is what
fundamentally connects your
thoughts to the things about
which you think that's roughly
speaking Brussels, viewed in
formulating that principle of
acquaintance. But here's the
thing. We're going to see in
this part of the course quite
a bit of evidence that people
appear able.
Correctly to act on things
concerning which they do not
appear to have awareness at all.
And that I think is gonna end up
being a threat to the view that
perceptual awareness is
important for making that
fundamental connection between
your thoughts and the things
around you. So we'll have a look
at that as well in that section.
The next question concerns a
classic topic in philosophy,
which is sense and reference the
question I've chosen to
represent. This topic is why are
some numerical identity is
informative? I'm very unhappy
about that question because it
sounds kind of dull and
technical, but it's not all that
technical at all. I just haven't
got a good way formulating it.
If you remember from earlier we
were talking about points of
view and I suggested that point
of view is somethings presented
in a certain way presented to
you. Of course, in a certain
way. And this question about.
Why some numerical identity's
are informative is really the
part where we tried to get a
grip on? This idea of things
being presented in one way or
things being presented in
another way. That's where we're
going to think seriously about
that. How we going to do that
really quick introduction. So
here's a strip from the comic
called Superman right. This goes
back a long way and I always try
to use other things and what I
found is that there isn't really
a cultural reference that very
many people are going to get.
You know, it's all sort of. I
guess I'm just too old to really
know. What the right cultural
references are, but Superman
just seems to be the one that
everybody gets, so that's why
that's why I'm using Superman
anyway, so here's a clip. I
guess you can read this clip.
You're just going to pause it or
something. I'm going to move
right on, right? If I was in a
lecture we don't be reading this
together would be very nice.
Anyway. The cool thing here is
that Clark Kent, who's?
We know is Superman. Of course
Lois doesn't know that she's
Superman is perpetually
disappointing to Lois and he's
trying to get her to. I think
she's trying to get her to date
him and she really doesn't want
to do that and so she actually
says look, you're an unbearable
coward. Drives off sometime
later she gets into trouble,
right? I skipped over the bit
where she gets into trouble that
didn't really interest me very
much, and here comes Superman.
Now remember that we know that
Superman is Clark Kent, but
lowest doesn't. And of course
Superman rescues Lois, Right?
This is back in the back in the
40s. I guess we wouldn't have
comics like that now, would we?
Anyway.
His particular frame I want to
think about what's happening
here. So Lois is looking right
at Superman. The question is,
does lowest see the unbearable
coward? Does lowest see the
unbearable coward now? I think
there's a case for making the
claim that she does. Here's the
case. Legacy Superman, Superman
is Clark Clark is the unbearable
coward, at least according to
Lois. So Superman is the
unbearable coward. How did I get
here? How do I get to .4 here?
Well, think about that for a
second. I'm just using what
you'll like to discover in logic
is called identity elimination.
I've got that identity statement
at 2. Superman is Clark and so I
can substitute Superman
infraware Clark appears in three
to get Superman is the
unbearable coward. That's just a
matter of logic. There's no way
out of the idea, but that's a
good inference follows then that
lower sees the unbearable
coward. How did I get here?
Well, I took the first thing
Lois. He's Superman and the
identity and fallen once again I
used identity elimination. Or
something very similar to
identity elimination, let's say
because let's not worry about
that. Alright, so here's my case
for saying that Lois sees the
unbearable coward. That seems to
me very hard to reject, but
there is an argument against
this. If Lois could see the
unbearable coward, she'd know
where he is. And of course, if
she knew where it was, she
wouldn't think he was
unbearable. Coward after all,
but Lois doesn't know where the
unbearable coward is, therefore
Lois. Cannot see the unbearable
coward. So here's a kind of
pretty strong case for saying
lowest can't see the unbearable
count as well. Now if we want to
respect the idea that underpins
this second argument, then we
have to suppose that.
The identity of Superman and
Clark. Is something that Lois
doesn't know and that it would
be informative for her to know?
Indeed it would sort of
transform her understanding of
the world that she is in or
interesting, so we'd have to
allow that. There could be fact
about numerical identity.
Superman and Clark are one thing
and not to mere fact about
numerical identity, which are
nevertheless informative. And
that would mean going back to
this idea about things being
presented in a certain way that
we'd have to think that how
things are presented.
Can't just be a matter of which
things there are.
So we get into all kinds of hot
water here when we ask this
question. Why are some numerical
identity's informative? So far
so good. Now my first 4
questions are all tightly
organized around the idea of a
point of view and they all link
back to that idea in one way or
another. Although of course you
could just think about these as
four independent questions and
not worry about the connections.
That's fine too. But when I was
looking at this course I've
noted before, so I was looking
at what what the sort of
specification says it says.
Well, it supposed to be a course
that covers philosophy of mind.
Metaphysics and epistemology.
Kind of crazy. Big subjects and
we've got nine weeks. I'm
definitely not going to do that.
I really don't believe in, you
know. Just giving you the really
superficial take on 20 different
topics in philosophy. It's kind
of fun for me to do, but I don't
think it will help you much. In
fact, you'll see when I come to
do the. Seminar tasks you're
going to even be doing some
rewriting, so we're going to
stick with the topic for two
weeks in a row. You're going
to be writing stuff and then
re writing in response to
some criticism.
But I didn't want to put some
metaphysics in, so I thought
I'd ask the question what's
necessary for your personal
survival, what's necessary for
your personal survival. So
this is kind of a mind of
reality. Sort of question, and
to illustrate that question, I
wanted to show you a clip from
the film called altered
carbon. You'll see why this is
interesting in it, so here's
the clip.
Not anymore.
There will be places where their
weight. The people left behind.
Wait to see their friends,
lovers, parents, children come
back to them.
Riding unfamiliar bodies out
from digitized exile.
They look into the eyes of
strangers searching for a
glimpse of the person they've
lost. I'll be driving into
the bank president.
Welcome to Bay City.
Looking to our daughter, Cindy
seven years old and get whatever
is in inventory. She was
murdered in a hit and run. The
law says she gets a free sleeve
and that one is free. If you
don't like it, pay for an
upgrade. Put it back in storage.
Put a kid in that old lady.
Victim restitution stages gives
you what they have on hand.
Broken down crap like that.
So we're interested in the
question. What's essential for
your personal survival?
Altered carbon and did many
works of fiction is interesting
because it suggests that your
body is not particularly
important. The clip you just
watched you saw a familiar
person in an unfamiliar body.
And an unfamiliar person in a
familiar body. So people and
bodies swapping around quite
fluidly. If that's coherent, and
the success of the works of
fiction suggested it is
coherent, then you can't
possibly think that your
personal survival somehow
depends on bodily or biological
continuity. That could be
radical breaks in biological
continuity. So when you move
digitally from one body too.
Another presses some long
interval in between, but yet
carry on being according to
these films the same person.
And then of course, conflicts
with the views of many
philosophers about the nature of
personal identity. So that's
super interesting and will look
at that more closely and more
carefully when we come to this
topic about personal survival.
When philosophers are
thinking about mind
of reality. They often treating
subjects, animals, or humans as
if they were mere thinkers.
People that perhaps feel things
matter to them, ignoring the
idea that most of what thinking
is for. Is about your actions,
your engagement with the world
around you, the changes that you
make to your environment. And of
course we've been thinking about
people in just that way until
this point in the course. So
it's important for us to
consider a question about
action, and that question will
be. Of the events involving
you, what determines which
are your actions?
The last question that I want us
to consider in the nine weeks of
this course is a question from
Apista Myologie about induction.
I have a scientific theory. I
have some observations. What is
it for the observations to be?
Evidence for the theory? What is
it for an observation to provide
evidence for a scientific
theory? Now? One way to see why
this is this question is
interesting is to take a look at
induction. So here's an example
of an inductive inference. I
note that all of all emeralds
observed until 2020 have been
green. And I conclude from
that that probably all
Emeril's agree.
Now, of course, that inference
doesn't follow as a matter of
logic, it's not a deduction
perfectly possible for the
premises to be true and the
conclusion false. Perhaps I've
been unlucky and just missed an
emerald that in fact wasn't
green at all.
But
Now you might think OK, so.
When we want to characterize the
mode of inference, one thing we
can do is we can try to
characterize it formally, and
philosophers have had great
success in characterizing
deductive inferences. Formally,
you're going to enjoy much of
that success when you study the
logic course. I think that's
probably happening next term, or
this. Maybe this term, I'm not
sure. Anyway, you're taking a
logic course as well. This year,
most people are in that logic
course. What you're essentially
discovering is that formal
methods providers with rich
insights into the nature of
deductive reasoning. So it's
good thought to have. Can we do
the same with induction? Can we
come up with a formal theory of
induction at Nelson? Goodman
famously demonstrated that you
cannot do that. There is no
formal theory of induction to do
that. He introduced us to a
novel predicate which you called
grew very simple. An object is
grew just if I, either it was
first observed before 2020 and
is green. Or else it was first
observed after 2020 and is blue.
Very simple, so there's a
predicate, perfectly good
predicate. You can use that in
all kinds of deductive
inferences, and things will go
fine. But look what happens if
we try to do an induction with
it. I say all emeralds observed
until 2020 have been grew, and
indeed that's true. Right, at
least if the other inductive
inference has a true premise.
So does this one. And then I
say, Well, probably all
emeralds are grue.
Now, why is that interesting?
Well, this second inference, the
one over here. That's a terrible
piece of inductive reasoning
that must be wrong. Now, Goodman
isn't a skeptic about induction.
You might be a skeptic, but
let's assume for the moment that
like Goodman, you're not a
skeptic about induction. Then
you tell me, look Steve, that is
a terrible piece of inductive
reasoning, but this one up here,
right? This is a very good piece
of inductive reasoning. This is
just a great piece of inductive
reasoning. Now the striking
thing formally. Those two bits
of inference are completely
indistinguishable. They have
exactly the same form.
But if they have exactly the
same form, then we can't hope to
make the difference between a
good inductive inference and a
bad inductive inference by
appeal to the formal properties
of those inferences. Same formal
properties. One is good, one is
bad therefore. We can't give a
formal theory of inductive
inference that tells us that
this question about induction is
a really hard question to
understand what it is for an
observation to provide evidence
from a scientific theory is
going to take us into entirely
new territory. So there you have
the seven questions that are
going to occupy us over the nine
weeks of the course. I think
that we're going to have a lot
of fun studying these questions
together, and I hope that in the
course of Reading this thing and
writing about these questions,
especially writing about them,
discussing the questions with
others, you're going to have a
lot of fun and learn much about
them too. Thank you.